[Music]
you
roller coaster in the world like this
video if you want to take a ride
however we wouldn't put it on our list
if there weren't the better reason
inside the very top there is a small
attic like structure used as a staging
and break area for climbers there is a
basketball hoop complete with backboard
and net which is attached to a flight of
wooden stairs you see the Matterhorn at
Disneyland was designed and named after
a mountain in the Alps climbers used the
basketball court and staging area to
prepare for scheduled climbs or to pass
the time when the weather was bad number
six the Sphinx's original appearance the
Great Sphinx of Giza is the oldest
statue in the world originally it was
decorated with bright paint but because
it has been far too long since the
statue was constructed now we can only
see some fragments of the paint behind
the ears it also had a nose and a
ceremonial beard you can still find the
remains of these in British and Egyptian
museums and now the best part some
experts believe that the Sphinx may
originally have had the head of a lion
for a dog and a human face was carved
only much later it's hard to be
completely sure but this would explain
the large difference between the
proportions of the massive body and the
small head seriously why is the head so
small
[Music]
number five the creation of the Leaning
Tower of Pisa just imagine how different
the world would have been if the Leaning
Tower of Pisa hadn't been built what
would we be pretending to hold up on
countless photos on Instagram all right
let's stop thinking about this it's too
scary let's talk about history the
famous Tower has many secrets everybody
knows that the tower is leaning but very
few people know who built the bell tower
four pieces Cathedral one of the reasons
for this mystery is that it was built
over the course of nearly 200 years so
it definitely couldn't have been one
person a popular opinion says the
construction plan was developed by
Bonanno Pisano but a more plausible
version is that it was d-o-t Salvi the
same guy who designed the baptistry next
to the tower it's hard not to notice
that they were built in the same style
number four the face of Rembrandt's
Danai Rembrandt started painting deny
two years after his marriage to Saskia
van eulenberg the artist depicted his
wife in many of his paintings so it was
a mystery for a long time who was in
denying the thing is the woman in this
painting doesn't look similar to Saskia
and it wasn't the way the artist saw his
wife because she looked very different
in his other works it is only recently
that the explanation has been found
when experts examine the painting using
x-rays they found out that the
similarity of the figure on the painting
with Saskia is much clearer
it seems that Rembrandt redid the
painting after his wife died and changed
it so that it would look similar to
another woman Gere Chi Dirk's the facial
features of the NIE were changed in a
way that they combined both of his
lovers features while we are not
entirely sure about the morality of this
you can definitely say that only a true
genius could picture something like that
number three the name of the most famous
tourist attraction in Britain you
probably know that Big Ben doesn't refer
to the whole Tower in the British houses
of parliament but instead only to the
large Bell within it now the official
name of the structure is the Elizabeth
Tower you probably want to know why we
are telling this to you and what the
mystery is here well at present no one
knows for certain in whose honor the
Bell was named Big Ben one of the
theories goes that it was the nickname
of a powerfully built man who managed
the Bell foundry where it was built
another theory suggests that it was
named after Benjamin count a heavyweight
boxing champion do you know any other
theories tell us in the comment section
number two the color of the Golden Gate
Bridge this is one of the most
photographed landmarks in the world
however it could have looked very
different than all those photos you see
it took a long time to agree on the
construction with the United States Navy
the Navy wanted it to be painted in
black and yellow stripes so that it
would be visible in the fog in the end
the architect of the bridge
Irving Moro convinced the military to
painted a dark orange color so now it's
not only visible in any weather
conditions but it also looks attractive
enough for people to want to take
numerous pictures of it
number one the sky in the painting the
scream the initial name of this famous
painting by Edvard Munch was the scream
of nature this is what the artist wrote
in his diary suddenly the sky became
blood-red I stopped feeling exhausted
and leaning against the fence saw blood
and tongues of flame over the bluish
black floor and a City in 2003 a group
of astronomers suggested a theory that
the bright scarlet color of the sky that
astounded the artist so much was caused
by the Krakatoa volcano eruption in 1883
a huge amount of awl Kanak dust was
thrown up into the atmosphere so that
people could observe bright flame like
sunsets all around the world this was
probably the reason why we have this
masterpiece to enjoy now do you know any
other amazing facts about famous works
of art tell us about them in the comment
section below and don't forget to hit
the like button
[Music]